[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: How is
JavaScript's Prototype chain not like
traditional/classical inheritance?
What's the key difference?
>> Speaker 1: It doesn't copy,
it links.
>> Kyle Simpson: It doesn't
copy, it links.
The errors go in the opposite direction.
What does behavior delegation mean and how
does it describe the object linking that
exists in JavaScript?
>> Speaker 2: A new object
delegates behaviors to its prototype and
any object made from the same constructors
shares the same prototype?
>> Kyle Simpson: I
like the first thing you said.
I don't like the second thing you said
that much cuz you're talking about
constructors.
But yes, objects delegate up the chain.
So any time we call a property or method
on one object, and he can't handle that
property or method, he delegates up
his prototype chain to another object.
What that object happens to be
is arbitrarily either simple or
complex depending on which style
of code you like to write.
But the fact of the matter is
that objects delegate to each
other.
>> Kyle Simpson: Why is
behavior delegation as a design pattern,
really what I mean is why is this,
not OLOO, I mean delegation,
what is the benefit of the delegation
design pattern?
>> Speaker 3: You
don't have copies of the function.
>> Kyle Simpson: You don't have
copies of the function.
So let me state it this way cuz that might
be a little bit abstract of a question for
me to ask at this point in our discussion,
so let me answer my own question.
With delegation we are embracing the fact
that all objects continue to exist and
they are dynamically and changing, and
the linkage that occurs is
a dynamic linkage at runtime.
With classes,
there's a snapshot copy that occurs.
So once I've made this copy, then if I
change the parent class in some way,
it's not affecting the child.
But with JavaScript and really with
embracing the delegation design pattern,
we embrace the idea that foo can
change during the runtime, and
bar automatically now gets to delegate to
a changed foo because it's a live link.
So it actually is a much
more powerful mechanism.
As a matter of fact, it's been said, and
I agree, delegation is more powerful than
class because you can implement classes in
delegation, but you cannot do the reverse.
You can't implement delegation
in a class mechanism.
>> Kyle Simpson: What are the tradeoffs to
the prototype mechanism?
>> Speaker 2: They're never gonna add
method missing to JavaScript.
>> Kyle Simpson: They are actually adding
it, it's called proxy.
>> Speaker 2: Shit.
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH] That's gotta be
'06.
>> Speaker 3: You can't shadow your-
>> Kyle Simpson: That's one of
the downsides to the way
the mechanism works in JavaScript,
is that shadowing is kind of awkward.
Now there's some, debatably,
depending on your perspective,
ES6 actually adds a class keyword and
they add a super keyword, and so they're
even further going down the bad path
that I think we shouldn't be going down.
But they've tried to syntactically solve
some of those issues, not all of them.
But you're right, shadowing is
still kind of an awkward thing.
But one of the downsides
to delegation is that,
whether it's delegation
the way I've shown it, or
whether it's the old class prototype
style of delegation, everything's public.
Which means you don't
get any private state,
you lose all the capabilities
of encapsulation.
So modules are nice because you get
to encapsulate private state, but
prototypes lose that.
Prototypes are nice because there's
only one copy of a method and
if you create a whole bunch of instances,
you've got less memory usage.
So there's these tradeoffs
that happen between the two.
In reality, I've been in the industry now
15 or 16 years, and every one of the jobs
I've ever had, I would see these code
bases with these fantastically complex
five level deep hierarchies of
inheritance with specialization and
all this overloading and all this stuff.
And then when it got down to it at
the very end, the very leaf node,
they just created one
instance of something.
And I know you laugh at that, but
it's ridiculous how often that happens,
that we go to all this trouble to create
the classes because that's how we were
told to design software, but in reality
we don't take any advantage of it at all.
We go to create all these hierarchies and
then we just instantiate one of them.
Well if you're just gonna instantiate one
of them why didn't you just do a single
flat level module?
Why create all of that extra
complexity of software design?
[COUGH] So it was asked in the chat and
I'll expound upon it,
95% of the time when I design software,
I use the module pattern.
Because I'm not creating
multiple instances so
it's not a big deal that there might be
two copies of the methods or something.
And the other 5% of the time,
when I do choose to use delegation,
I use OLOO style rather than
the constructor prototype
style.
>> Speaker 4: So
if you use the module pattern for
95% of your code, how do you
handle managing state with 100 objects?
>> Kyle Simpson: I
very rarely have 100 objects.
It's just not that common in
real world JavaScript code.
We think in theory, yeah, I'll instantiate
this thing, I'll have 100 calendar widgets
on a page, but in reality,
we never actually have more than just 1.
It just comes down to if you really did
have a case that you legitimately wanted
100 copies of a thing, then use
delegation, but it just doesn't happen
very often for me in the real world.
>> Speaker 4: I
work on a lot of interfaces,
so with complex interfaces,
you might have 50 or-
>> Kyle Simpson: What would you have 50 of
in a complex interface?
>> Speaker 4: Well in the case
of the builder that I'm working
on now there's gonna be five or
six or seven.
>> Kyle Simpson: Of what?
>> Speaker 4: Of an item,
which is a blueprint item.
>> Kyle Simpson: Uh-huh.
>> Speaker 4: Then within that item
there's lots of joinable
edges that each have
a state.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
if you did actual benchmarking
of the performance downside,
you might say to yourself, it's terrible
that I'm copying the method seven times.
In reality, you would have to be creating
hundreds and hundreds of objects
before the optimizations that the engine
is already doing couldn't keep up.
So if you're just doing five or seven of
them, I still think modules would probably
suffice, but-
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
there could be 50-
>> Kyle Simpson: I think you would
literally have to have like 500 or more
before you could convince me you really
have to go with the delegation pattern,
but that's just me.
Honestly, five or seven of them I
wouldn't even blink in using modules.
>> Speaker 4: Even if one item has 100
methods, or 50 methods?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
the JavaScript engine is just so
good at optimizing this stuff,
it's just not gonna really matter in
the real world, unless you get to a really
large scale of number of instances,
and I just don't see that very often.